

			%%%%%%%%%%%% Auto Scaling     %%%%%%%%%%%

What is Aws Auto Scaling ? 

-->Aws auto scaling keeps on Monitoring you application & Automatically
adjust the capacity required for steady & predicatable Performance

-->By using auto scaling its very easy to set up the scaling of the application 
automatically with no manual intervention 

-->it allows you to bulid a simply yet intutive ul the allows you to create scaling 
plans for resources like EC2 Instances,Amazon EC2 tasks,Amazon 
Dynamo DB,Amazon Aurora Read Replicas.

-->Auto Scaling balances Performace Optimization and cost

-->IT means you will be having the right amount resource at the rigth time.


-- >  Basics of Aws auto scaling : 

	1.Automatically Maintain Performance.

	2.Make Smart Scaling Decision 

	3.Pay only for what you need 

	4.Aws auto scaling allows you to bulid scaling plan based on change in demand.

	5.It will automatically add or remove the instances.

	6.Aws Auto scaling is free to use.

	7.You will be charged for the resources.

**Benefits & features of Aws Auto Scaling 

	1.Set up Quick Scaling .

	2.pay as you go. 

	3.Automatically maintain performance.
	
	4.Smart Scaling Decisions.

--> AutoScaling has two components: 

	1.Launch Configurations -> Launch Configurations hold the instructions for the creation of new instances. The instructions describe what type of instance AutoScaling

	2.Auto Scaling Groups  -> Scaling Groups, on the other hand, manage the scaling rules and logic, which are defined in policies. Those could be based on schedule or CloudWatch metrics.


Terminologies related to AWS Autoscaling Groups:

--> What is Autoscaling Groups 

Auto-scaling Group (ASG) is for helping out logical servers, and it increases or decreases according to the requirements.

--> Launch Configuration & Launch Template: 

	A launch configuration and template defines an instance configuration template that an Auto Scaling group uses to launch EC2 instances


Launch Template: 

	We recommend that you use launch templates to make sure that you're getting the latest features from Amazon EC2.

--> Snapshots vs. AMI  

Snapshots :

	 AWS provides a data storage service along with the Amazon EC2 instance, namely, Elastic Block Store (EBS). 

 AMI : 
	EBS has Snapshots for data storage, whereas AMI is primarily associated with AWS EC2

--> AWS Auto Scaling work

	Configure a single unified scaling policy per application source.
	Choose the service that you want to scale up or down.
	Select what to optimize. Based on a schedule, scale your application in response to predictable load changes. 
	Keep tracing the scaling load and maintain a steady count of instances.

--> Types of Scaling Plans

	1.Manual scaling - This scaling helps in managing the task of building or terminating EC2 instances on its own.

	2.Scaling based on a schedule - Developers can predict future traffic and can schedule the time for executing AWS Auto Scaling.
	
	3.Scaling based on demand - This scaling lets developers define required scaling in response to client demand.

	4.Maintaining the current instance-level - Developers configure an Auto Scaling group for managing running instances.


--> How to configure auto-scaling group in AWS step by step 

	Step 1.Create a launch template
	Step 2.Create an auto-scaling group from the launch template
	Step 3.Add Elastic Load Balancers (Optional)
	Step 4.Configure Scaling Policies (Optional)
	Step 5.Test auto-scaling group
	Step 6.Delete auto-scaling group

 --> To create an Auto Scaling group using a launch configuration


	1.Choose Create an Auto Scaling group.

	2.On the Choose launch template or configuration page, for Auto Scaling group name, enter a name for your Auto Scaling group.

	3.To choose a launch configuration, do the following:

	  	 A.For Launch template, choose Switch to launch configuration.
	   	 B.For Launch configuration, choose an existing launch configuration.
	  	 C.Verify that your launch configuration supports all of the options that you are planning to use, and then choose Next..

	4. The Auto Scaling group must be created in the same VPC as the security group you specified in your launch configuration.

	5. choose one or more subnets in the specified VPC. Use subnets in multiple Availability Zones for high availability.

	6.Configure advanced options page, configure the following options, and then choose Next:

		A.To create a new load balancer, follow the procedure in Configure an Application Load Balancer or Network Load Balancer using the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling console.
		B.To enable your Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) health checks, for Health checks, choose ELB under Health check type. 
		C.The default is 300 seconds. For more information, see Health check grace period.
		D.Additional settings, Monitoring, choose whether to enable CloudWatch group metrics collection
		
	7. Configure group size and scaling policies page, configure the following options, and then choose Next:--> (OPTIONAL)

		A.you must update the values of Minimum capacity or Maximum capacity. For more information, see Setting capacity limits on your Auto Scaling group.

	8.To receive notifications, for Add notification configure the notification, and then choose Next. For more information, see Getting Amazon SNS notifications when your Auto Scaling group scales.---(Optional)

	9.choose Add tag, provide a tag key and value for each tag, and then choose Next. For more information, see Tagging Auto Scaling groups and instances.---(Optional)
	
	10. review and click auto scalling group 




















	

 